6) Mastering Effective 
Zero-Shot Prompting
Objective: Create the most effective prompts possible without giving the AI examples.
(9thwardAI.net) 

What we know:

	The baseline for effective prompt engineering is 3 components. 

Give the AI an Identity. 
Define the User’s Role.
Clearly Specify a Task.

What we know:


Sound familiar?


	“You are a professor of alternative energies specializing in Floating Photovoltaic Panels (FPVs). I am a high school student working on my senior capstone project. I will give you my capstone research objective and a chunk of an article on FPVs. Tell me if the article chunk will help me with my research objective.” 

The 4th component of 
an Effective Zero-Shot Prompt: 4) Harnessing the AI.

Clearly define what you are looking for. 
Clearly define what you are NOT looking for. 
Clearly define the structure of AI’s response. 

The 4th component of 
an Effective Zero-Shot Prompt: 4) Harnessing the AI.

I am looking for whether or not the article chunk can help me with my research objective. 
I am NOT looking for explanations, summaries, or any help understanding the article
Respond with a simple ‘yes’ or ‘no’ and 1-2 sentences explaining your determination.

One last thing…

	Clearly delineate between the directions portion of your prompt and the data portion of your prompt. 

	Especially in a chat interface, this can help the AI determine between what it is being instructed to do and what it is instructed to it on. 

	This can be as simple as…

ARTICLE CHUNK BELOW:

Putting it all together one last time:

	You are a college professor specializing in Floating Photovoltaic Panels (FPVs). I am a high school student working on my senior capstone project. I have an article on FPVs. I will give you my research objective and a chunk of the article. Tell me if the article chunk helps me with my research objective of [INSERT OBJECTIVE]

I am only looking for if the article chunk has relevance to my research objective. 
I am NOT looking for summaries, explanations, or help understanding the article chunk. 
Respond with ‘yes’ or ‘no’ and 1-2 sentences explaining why. 

ARTICLE CHUNK BELOW:
